---
title: "A Vector SIFT Detector for Interest Point Detection in Hyperspectral Imagery"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/transactionremotepaper2012
excerpt: ''
date: 2012-05-09
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Dorado-Munoz, Leidy; Velez-Reyes, Miguel; Mukherjee, Amit; Roysam, Badrinath. &quot;A Vector SIFT Detector for Interest Point Detection in Hyperspectral Imagery.&quot; in <i>IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 50, no. 11</i>. (2012).'
---
**Abstract:** This paper presents an algorithm for the extraction of interest points in hyperspectral images. Interest points are spatial features of the image that capture information from their neighbors, are distinctive and stable under transformations such as translation and rotation, are helpful in data reduction, and reduce the computational burden of various algorithms such as image registration by replacing an exhaustive search over the entire image domain by a probe into a concise set of highly informative points. Interest points have been applied to problems in computer vision, including image matching, recognition, 3-D reconstruction, and change detection. Interest point operators for monochromatic images were proposed more than a decade ago and have extensively been studied. An interest point operator seeks out points in an image that are structurally distinct, invariant to imaging conditions, and stable under geometric transformations. An extension of Lowe's scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) to vector images is proposed here. The approach takes the vectorial nature of the hyperspectral images into account. Furthermore, the multiscale representation of the image is generated by vector nonlinear diffusion, which leads to improved detection, because it better preserves edges in the image as opposed to Gaussian blurring, which is used in Lowe's original approach. Experiments with hyperspectral images of the same and different resolutions that were collected with the Airborne Hyperspectral Imaging System (AISA) and Hyperion sensors are presented. Evaluation of the proposed approach using repeatability criterion and image registration is carried out. Comparisons with other approaches that were described in the literature are presented.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2012.2191791)

Recommended citation: Dorado-Munoz, Leidy; Velez-Reyes, Miguel; Mukherjee, Amit; Roysam, Badrinath. &quot;A Vector SIFT Detector for Interest Point Detection in Hyperspectral Imagery.&quot; in <i>IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 50, no. 11</i>. (2012).